Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture where we are going to have a look at the bevel tool, a bevel
tool is very useful for the sharp edges here rounding them out.
And also in general on objects sharp edges like this generally don't exist.
Everything's got a slight bevel to it.
Whether it's a box or a desk or anything else that's hard surface.
Very few of them have this complete sharp edge to them.
Of course that may be a stylistic decision that you're going for but if not the bevel tool might be
something you want to use.
Let's find out some more.
Okay everybody welcome back.
Now this is where we left off last time so the first thing we need to do is actually get this shape
this cylinder here more representative of the pawn itself.
We're just focused on the base at the moment and we'll worry about the rest of the pawn once we have
finished off the base.
The first thing that you will notice is that even though we can set let's come out of edit mode for
a moment this image of the back underneath the object properties we can scroll down and under the viewport
display we can scroll down a little more and we can put a tick in the in front.
Now at the moment that doesn't actually shift in front unless you're in solid shading mode and then
it does move in front of everything else.
But if we are in any of the other views we cannot see through the model if that is the case then we
can go about it another way instead of making this particular piece stand out in front.
So I'm just gonna turn off for the moment.
We can select our other objects and whilst the object properties go to where it says display ads at
the moment it's set to textured.
We could also said it's a solid, wire or bounce.
In this case the set it as wire and that will essentially allow us to turn that one object into wireframe
and see through it.
Now in the next couple of lectures we'll get to exploring some other construction methods as well.
But this is one way of seeing through your model so you can construct it using an image behind.
So now it's in this wireframe mode but the rest of our scene is not in wireframe mode.
We go into our object making sure we're in edit mode and with the shortcut key control and R we can
start adding in some loop cuts.
Now I'm going to add in these loop cuts at points where I want it to be the widest and where it comes
in again.
So I'm just going to manually add them in.
So we want that narrow they're wide here and there's a little lip just here so that's how many I'm going
to add for the moment.
I don't want to go over the top.
There are other construction methods where you can add more geometry and control it much better.
And the bevel tool is one of those ones.
So let's go ahead.
Whilst in Edge select mode I'm going to hold down ALT and select this top edge and I'm simply going
to scale it down to approximately the right size.
It doesn't have to be exact.
We're not working 2 engineering measurements here and this one somewhere around there.
And then I leave this one just a little bit in but not too much but I'm going to grab this one and scale
it all the way in and I'm going to leave that other one.
So we've got this jagged shape here.
Then I can change the display back to solid or textured in this case.
And there we go we've got a rough outline that matches what we had before in fact in this case I'm going
to scale this in just a little bit more so we get more of a change in direction.
OK.
So now we have our base model what we can do is use the bevel tool.
Now the bevel tool is available on the tool shelf.
Now sometimes these tools shelf options behave slightly different to the shortcut key.
I think that's a bug at the moment.
But with here we can see the control and B will be the shortcut key for it when we hover over on the
tool shelf and what the bevel tool will enable us to do is select an individual edge or edges and add
additional geometry to smooth out transitions.
Now the tool shelf does behave slightly differently in this case.
So if I just press control and B we can start bevelling everything at once and that's my preferred way
of using the bevel tool and we can use the scroll wheel at this point to add additional geometry as you
can see there we can add quite a bit.
Now I encourage you not to go over the top whenever you do a bevel like this.
In fact this isn't a great place to give an example this edge here perhaps is.
So if I bevel around that we can see that I can bevel out there and then I can use the scroll wheel to
add additional geometry in its place.
It does shrink the geometry a little bit.
Now we have a nice smooth curve going round and in  the operator panel will give us further options
so we can make it more pointed and even going in the other way if we wanted to.
So there's lots of options adjusting here.
Now we've already played with vertex bevelling and that will give us a completely different shape.
So we're not doing that at this point and there are different varieties that you could do.
I'm going to leave the profile at point five so it produces a nice rounded surface.
Now the tool shelf itself does act a little bit differently so if I was to go ahead with the tool shelf
and click when you've got things highlighted you have to then click and drag to get the appropriate
effect.
Now that is pretty cool but that's not what I desired.
So let's just undo that for the moment.
So with this I'm going out with background to orthographic projection by pressing the number three
when we click on that we can individually select edges as well.
And when we do that we then click and drag to do the bevel.
So this could produce some nice shapes going round our model if this is what you choose to make.
That's pretty cool I like how that's working out.
Let's undo that for a second and have another look.
So how would you use the bevel tool button on the tool shelf and do what I did earlier.
Well you'd simply hold down out first then click everything then click and drag and you'll have those
other options.
Now you do not after you've done that have the options to add in additional segments you will have to
open up the bevel and add those segments in afterwards.
This is why I personally prefer the keyboard shortcuts.
It's a much faster workflow and you will find that the loop cuts tool over on the side is also very
similar.
I've had a couple of you point that out in the Q and A's.
Okay.
So another thing that you can do here and it's going to undo those changes and whizz round.
Now you may notice we've got a bit of a clipping issue.
We'll deal with that in the next lecture.
But for now I'm just gonna whizz round to orthographic or it doesn't matter the zoom level and what
we can do here is select multiple edges or edge loops at once and apply a bevel modifier to all of them.
Now the downside of this is you cannot control individually how many segments are going to be made in
this case it's going to be three two one.
So you don't have as fine a control as you do when you selecting them individually and now it's time
for your challenge.
Okay see your challenge I'd like you to go ahead and finish off the base.
Now using the bevel tool you can use that to round off our sharp edges and just make them a little bit
more smooth finish off adding the fine detail to the base itself.
Now don't go over the top.
I'll give you a little hint in a few lectures time.
We're going to undo some of those steps to learn some new techniques.
But at the moment finish off adding detail to the base.
Use your artistic license have a bit of fun and see what other shapes you can come up with.
When it comes to this base we're going to explore some other construction methods as well so feel free
so run riot and actually make something quite unique.
And remember to save your work as you go.
Whether or not it's in beta at the moment blender can still crash whenever you're working on it.
I always recommend to save your file.
The other thing to bear in mind is that auto save if it is working on blender at the time seems to only
save when you are in object mode.
If you are doing something in edit mode and it crashes during that you will probably lose all of the
stuff you had been doing whilst in edit mode so remember to save often pause video now and give it a
go.
Okay everybody, Welcome back.
Let's go head now and finish off the base.
Hello everybody.
Okay so the first thing I want to do here is a few bits of adjustment with our geometry.
I'm going to take this loop here and approach G twice and move it down slightly and we can.
Oh I do want it a little bit higher at the same time.
I think I just need to move the geometry around a little perhaps move this bit up before I move this
bit's up and make that's a little bit wider and I'll show you why I'm making that extra wide in a moment.
And you've probably experienced that yourself as you've been playing around.
The other thing I want to do here is this comes out and there's no way I can do it unless I put a loop
cut in there and actually scale it out again so it goes up and out and round.
Okay so the first thing I need to think of is where do I want my bevel to be.
Well do we need any around here.
Well I can probably add a little at this top point to smooth out that transition so if i just go control
and B an add in some extra geometry do I want that much geometry.
I think two segments smooths out nicely actually.
Then we've got this area here.
So the question then is do we need anything now or is it okay with that angle change.
And I'm gonna keep that angle change in this case.
This one here is an interesting one and the reason why I've made it wider is is you probably noticed
by now when you use the bevel tool it shrinks things in.
So we do have to be careful.
We can only go so far and there we go we can move in then I think two is still too sharp three is getting
there and four is spot on.
Okay now we get this bit here where it comes in and this is what I was concerned about as we come down
and round we've reached this sharp area.
I can't really do much with because there's all this extra geometry here.
Some of the press the G key twice and move that down a little bit more and then scale it in and then
move it down a little bit more until it's about half way I'm probably going to have to do a similar
thing with this.
I'm going to bring that down as well.
Now there is really only enough space here.
That's too much geometry although it looks nice for about another two.
And these last two here they are say the last two because I'm thinking of this bottom bit as well.
This piece otherwise will sit.
Dead center on the floor and they have this incredibly sharp bottom to it.
And that does that as I was saying earlier really doesn't happen in real life.
So let's go ahead and add some bevels in there and we end up with this piece that's come out.
I'm starting to like how that looks.
It's got enough geometry in there that it looks nice and smooth.
Speaking of smooth it whilst I'm in object mode if I go ahead and right click and shade smooth that
looks a lot lot better straight away so that zoom out and have a look.
Excellent.
So this is what I've ended up by playing with the bevel.
I'm really interested to see what shapes you came up with.
Did you play like I suggested.
If he did come up with something funky.
Remember you don't have to proceed with it but it may be worthwhile to share to see what you came up
with.
I've often ended up making something really cool when it was just a happy accident.
So there we go.
That's me done.
Please share your work over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.